---
layout: page
title: Construction Services
permalink: /resources/construction-services/
---

### **Scope**

Front Range Fire Rescue (FRFR) has adopted the International Fire Code within its jurisdictional area. The [2006 IFC](/uploads/2006 IFC Amendments.pdf){: target="_blank"} is in place within the Town of Johnstown corporate limits. The [2012 IFC](/uploads/2012 IFC Amendments.pdf){: target="_blank"} is in place within the Town of Milliken corporate limits as well as unincorporated Weld County. The procedures and processes established within all portions of the FRFR Construction and Development Procedures Manual are applicable throughout the FRFR jurisdiction.

### **Plans to be Reviewed**

<div>Based on the adopted fire code, FRFR shall review construction documents, plans, etc for all of the following proposed occupancies/buildings,including tenant finishes and remodels, in any of these property types:</div>

* Assembly occupancies (A1 through A5)
* Business occupancies (B)
* Institutional occupancies (I1 through I4)
* Mercantile occupancies (M)
* Educational occupancies (E)
* Residential occupancies (R1 through R4)
* Factory/Industrial occupancies (F1 and F2)
* Storage occupancies (S1 and S2)
* High Hazard occupancies (H1 through H5)
* Miscellaneous occupancies (U)

<div><p>FRFR shall perform plan review for the purpose of applying fire code requirements and issuing permits to the following types of proposed developments:</p><ol style="list-style-type:lower-alpha;"><li>Planned Unit Development (PUD)</li><li>Commercial subdivisions</li><li>Residential subdivisions</li><li>Special improvement districts</li><li>Commercial business development</li><li>Industrial parks</li><li>Minor residential developments</li><li>Multi-family developments</li></ol><p>FRFR shall perform plan review for the purpose of applying fire code requirements and issuing permits to the following types of mechanical, electrical, and hydraulic systems:</p><ol style="list-style-type:lower-alpha;"><li>Fire protection systems</li><li>Kitchen hood and duct systems</li><li>Fire alarm/detection systems</li><li>Hazard control system</li></ol><p>FRFR also performs plan review, applies fire code requirements and issues permits for tents/canopies, fireworks sales stands, fireworks displays, hazardous materials processes, hazardous materials storage, special events, and a wide variety of other areas, as addressed in the International Fire Code. Refer to the Codes and Regulations page for additional information on these, and many other, permits that are required.&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>Plan Review Process</strong></h3><p>A minimum of 14 business days is required to complete the review of submitted plans. Additional time may be necessary based upon the complexity of the projects and the completeness of submitted information. If plan review is anticipated to exceed 14 business days, the Life Safety Chief/Fire Marshal will notify the applicant of the delay and the reasons for the delay.</p><p>Before beginning any new construction or remodel construction project, the general contractor should determine if fire alarms and/or fire sprinkler systems will be required for the project. If any fire protection system is required, a valid FRFR permit is required to begin construction.</p><p>All contractors installing and/or repairing fire protection systems (alarm, sprinkler, etc.) within FRFR jurisdiction are required to possess a current <a target="_blank" href="/uploads/Application for Contractor Licensing.pdf">FRFR Contractor License</a>. All persons performing installation and/or repair of fire alarm and fire sprinkler systems are required to possess and maintain <a href=" https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/dfpc/certifications-and-registrations">Registration</a> with the State of Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control.</p><p>The Applicant may submit printed or electronic plans for review. If printed plans are submitted, two (2) complete sets shall be submitted to FRFR and the municipal Building/Planning Department with jurisdiction.</p><p style="margin-left:.5in;">If a fire protection system contractor is proposing to make modifications to an existing fire protection system that is limited to affecting 10 or fewer devices, the permit submittal may include the FRFR Plan Review/Permit Application form and a &ldquo;Letter of Scope&rdquo; that specifically describes the modifications to be performed. Based on the amount of work to be completed, it may be possible to decrease the amount of supporting documentation to be submitted.</p><p>For all permit applications, the Applicant shall complete the appropriate permit application form and shall pay the appropriate non-refundable permit fee or deposit, as indicated on the FRFR Fee Schedule. The Applicant shall be responsible for paying all applicable FRFR Plan Review and Permit Fees prior to issuance of any permits. Please review the <a data-cms-editor-link-style="undefined" href="/FRFR Fee Schedule (07-12-2018).pdf"><strong>FRFR Plan Review and Permit Fee Schedule</strong></a>&nbsp;for all current fees.&nbsp;</p><h3><strong>Fire Alarm Permit submittals shall include the following information:</strong></h3><p>This list is not intended to be inclusive of all requirements for a fire alarm submittal, but rather as a guide to indicate minimum requirements.</p><ul><li>Copy of valid FRFR Contractor License</li><li>Completed Plan Review/Permit Application form</li><li>Two (2) complete sets of printed plans (minimum 1/8&rdquo; scale)<ul style="list-style-type:circle;"><li>OR: One (1) complete set of electronic plans</li></ul></li><li>PE or NICET Level III stamps on all plans</li><li>Minimum of one (1) set of material cut sheets</li><li>Voltage drop calculations</li><li>Battery calculations</li><li>Symbols list</li><li>Sprinkler riser diagram</li></ul><h3><strong>Fire Sprinkler Permit submittals shall include the following information:</strong></h3><p>This list is not intended to be inclusive of all requirements for a fire alarm submittal, but rather as a guide to indicate minimum requirements.</p><ul><li>Copy of valid FRFR Contractor License</li><li>Completed Plan Review/Permit Application form</li><li>Two (2) complete sets of printed plans (minimum 1/8&rdquo; scale)<ul style="list-style-type:circle;"><li>OR: One (1) complete set of electronic plans</li></ul></li><li>PE or NICET Level III stamps on all plans</li><li>Minimum of one (1) set of material cut sheets</li><li>Hydraulic calculations</li><li>State of Colorado sprinkler form</li><li>Water supply information</li><li>NFPA Working Plans Checklist</li></ul><h3><strong>General Construction and Fire Protection System Permits and Inspections</strong></h3><p>Front Range Fire Rescue (FRFR) will issue permits to Applicants after the plan review process has been completed. The Applicant shall be responsible for obtaining valid permits from the municipal jurisdiction (e.g., Town of Milliken, Town of Johnstown, or Weld County).</p><p>FRFR will perform inspections for all permits issued by the agency. A final inspection from FRFR is required in order for the owner/occupant to obtain a Certificate of Occupancy (CO) or Letter of Completion, prior to occupying the building. Final inspections for building permit (general construction) and fire protection systems (fire alarm, fire sprinkler, commercial hood system) shall be scheduled for the same time and all applicable contractors must be present for testing and inspecting. Fore these multi-systems inspections, the general contractor or owner is responsible for coordinating with all involved sub-contractors and FRFR for attendance. For inspections that only involve fire protection systems, the fire protection system contractor shall be responsible for scheduling the inspection with FRFR.</p><p>PRIOR TO SCHEDULING ANY INSPECTIONS, CONTRACTORS SHALL READ ALL FIRE DEPARTMENT COMMENTS AND/OR CONDITIONS THAT WERE ISSUED WITH THE PERMIT TO ENSURE THAT ALL REQUIREMENTS HAVE BEEN MET BEFORE THE INSPECTION.</p><p>The project address and permit number(s) must be provided when scheduling inspections.</p><p><strong><em>To schedule an inspection with FRFR, call (970)587-4464 x 208 at least 48 hours prior to the desired date and time of the inspection.</em></strong></p><h3><strong>Forms, Information, and Applications for Permits:</strong></h3><div><a target="_blank" href="/uploads/NFPA Working Plans Checklist.pdf">NFPA Working Plans Checklist</a></div><div><a target="_blank" href="/uploads/Plan Submittal Application (2018).pdf">Plan Review/Permit Application Form</a></div><div><a href="__notset__">Plan Review and Permit Fee Schedule</a></div><div><a target="_blank" href="/uploads/Application for Contractor Licensing.pdf">Application for Contractor Licensing</a></div><div><a target="_blank" href="/uploads/Development Requirements.pdf">Development Requirements</a></div><div><a target="_blank" href="/uploads/Fire Protection Requirements (2006 IFC).pdf">Fire Protection Requirements (2006 IFC)</a></div><div><a target="_blank" href="/uploads/Fire Protection Requirements (2012 IFC).pdf">Fire Protection Requirements (2012 IFC)</a></div><div><a target="_blank" href="/uploads/Fire Department Connections.pdf">Fire Department Connections (FDCs)</a></div><div><a target="_blank" href="/uploads/Knox Box Options.pdf">Knox Box Options</a></div><div><a target="_blank" href="/uploads/Commercial Kitchen Hood Systems.pdf">Commercial Kitchen Hood Systems</a></div></div>

<div>&nbsp;</div>