---
layout: page
title: Community Risk Reduction
permalink: /resources/community/
---

**​Car Seats&nbsp; &nbsp;** &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Front Range Fire Rescue is dedicated to ensuring safety for all children in car seats. Please email us at,&nbsp; info@frfr.co or call (970) 587-4464 to schedule a certified seat technician to help educate, check, and install your child seat.&nbsp; Click here for a brochure on [Colorado Car Seat Laws.](/child seat belt trifold.pdf){: target="_blank"}

**Ride-Along&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;** Interested in what the fire service is all about? Please schedule a ride-along with us to get an in depth view of everything we do. On your ride-along, you will be able to respond to incidents, train, eat meals, and learn about the firefighters serving your community. Please email us at info@frfr.co or call (970) 587-4464 to schedule a ride along.

**Citizen Advisory Group&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;**In today’s world, citizens are participating in the discussion about their quality of life, taxes, and government services. Realizing that public input is the key to tailoring the services that Front Range Fire Rescue provides, the District has established a Citizens Advisory Group (CAG). FRFR is interested in receiving input and advice from a formalized group of citizens who have a desire to express their interest in improving the emergency services within the community. The CAG will serve as a vital link between the District's leadership and the public we serve.&nbsp;[ FRFR Citizen Advisory Group Application.](/uploads/Citizens Advisory Group Application.Fill.in.pdf)

**Station Tours&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;**We invite you into your local fire house to tour the station and all equipment. This is a great opportunity for small groups to see a brief overview of what firefighting is all about. On your station tour, you will be able to visit all parts of the fire station and look over every fire truck that responds to incidents from that fire house.

**Public Events&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;** Front Range Fire Rescue is proud to be involved within the community and offer services other than fire, rescue and EMS.&nbsp;

**Child Education and Activities&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;**Learn about fire safety with Sparky at http://www.sparky.org/. Contact the administration office for more information by email info@frfr.co or phone (970) 587-4464.

**&nbsp;Home Safety Surveys&nbsp;**&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Fire departments in the United States respond to an average of one house fire every 86 seconds. This was an astounding 358,500 house fires during the time period from 2011 through 2015. Annually, home fires cause an average of 12,300 injuries and 2,500 deaths, as well as a whopping $6.7 billion in property loss! Cooking equipment is the leading cause of home fires and the second leading cause of home fire deaths. Smoking is the leading cause of home fire deaths. Improper use of heating equipment is the second most common cause of home fire injuries.&nbsp;<br>Front Range Fire Rescue wants to help you stay safe in your homes so you don't have to suffer a fire loss. Use on of these simple checklists to walk through your home and make sure everything is is good condition to keep you and your loved ones safe.&nbsp; &nbsp;[*CHECKLIST&nbsp;*](/uploads/Home Fire Safety Inspection Form.pdf) &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;[www.knowledgeinitiative.org/risk-checker](www.knowledgeinitiative.org/risk-checker)